you
ever wonder where most of the foods you
eat everyday comes from well about 60%
of food you eat is carbohydrates as you
can probably tell from its name
carbohydrates contain carbon hydrogen
and oxygen but where do these atoms
originally come from and how do they
join together to make delicious foods
like fruits and pasta it actually all
starts with the air you are exhaling at
this very minute
specifically the carbon dioxide
molecules plants are going to breathe in
this very same carbon dioxide through
pores in their skin called stomata
plants drink in water from their roots
to get the needed oxygen and hydrogen
atoms and their electrons in order to
build carbohydrates what is that thing
well that's a special plant organelle
inside the leaves of plants called a
chloroplast it's green because of a
special light absorbing pigment called
chlorophyll each leaf has about 44,000
cells and every cell can have anywhere
between 20 to 100 chloroplasts that's up
to 4 million 400,000 chloroplasts by now
you've probably guessed that we're
talking about the process of
photosynthesis and you might be
wondering when the Sun is going to make
its entrance let's go back to that
original molecule of water the plant has
to split this molecule of water so that
it can get electrons from it but the
plant can't pull that water apart by
itself it needs help from the
high-energy rays of the Sun so now that
the chloroplast has all the building
blocks carbon hydrogen oxygen and
electrons it can use them to go through
the rest of the steps of photosynthesis
to transform that original carbon
dioxide gas into a simple carbohydrate
called glucose c6h12o6 that little
glucose molecule then helps to build
bigger and better carbohydrates like
cellulose cellulose is a type of
carbohydrate found in plants that our
body cannot break down
we call it fiber and we eat it in
vegetables like lettuce broccoli and
celery plants use cellulose to keep
themselves strong the plant could also
turn that glucose into starch a large
molecule that stores energy for the
plant we love eating start from plants
like potatoes corn and rice so you see
when we eat plants
actually benefiting from photosynthesis
the plant makes things like starch which
we eat and then break back down into
glucose the first form the plant made
then the mitochondrion our cells powered
by the oxygen we breathe can turn
glucose into pure energy molecules
called ATP ATP powers all work done by
each and every one of your cells things
like communication movement and
transport but why do we have to turn
that glucose into ATP well think of it
like this you're excited to start your
summer job at the local ice cream stand
but your boss has just told you that she
is going to pay you in ice cream cones
what are you going to be able to do with
those ice cream cones nothing which is
why you kindly ask to be paid in dollars
ATP is just like dollars it is the
currency that all cells of life use
while glucose is well kinda like ice
cream even plants have mitochondria in
their cells to break down the glucose
they make into ATP so as you can see
humans and plants are intricately
connected the air we breathe out is used
by plants to make the carbohydrates we
enjoy so much and in the process they
are releasing the very same oxygen
molecules we need to breathe in in order
that our mitochondria can break down our
delicious carbohydrate meal
you